# pandas-challenge
Test score, school size, and budget data was used to gain insights on the school district. First, the district was summarized to identify the number of schools, the total students, total budget, average math and reading scores, as well as the percent of students passing math, reading, and both. Next, we looked at a breakdown by school. In the school summary, we identified school type (district or charter), total students at each school, budget per school, budget per student at each school, average math and reading scores at each school, and the percent of students passing math, reading, and both. We sorted this data to determine the highest and lowest performing schools in the district (based on overall percent passing). From here, we looked at the math and reading scores by grade. Finally, we assessed test scores based on school spending, school size, and school type. The analysis is located in the pandas-challenge reposition, inside of the PyCitySchools folder, in the "PyCitySchools_analysis.ipynb" file. Below are some conclusions:
* Small and medium sized schools had significantly better overall passing rates than large schools.

* Schools with the lowest budget per student (less than $585) had the highest overall passing rate as well as the highest average test scores.

* The top 5 performing schools (highest overall % passing) were all charter schools. Additionally, the top 3 performing schools were all medium schools. The bottom 5 performing schools are all large size district schools. Further analysis would likely reveal a strong correlation between school type, school size, and overall % passing
